Server hosting but cooler (#205)
R2Northstar/NorthstarWiki: docs/hosting-a-server-with-northstar/dedicated-server/hosting-on-windows.md

# Hosting on Windows

## Hardware

{% hint style="info" %}
TODO: If you have experience in hosting Northstar servers and want to share your knowledge, please open a [pull request](https://github.com/R2Northstar/NorthstarWiki/pulls).
{% endhint %}

## Minimum requirements

The current minimum requirements are as follows:

**Requirements per server:**

- 8GB free disk space (5GB of the game and 3 for Origin/EA app)
- 3+ cores (2 might work, though)
- 3GB+ total memory (RAM or swap will do)

> - Windows 8.1 or better (and built-in WARP [use `-softwared3d11`] or a graphics card)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Windows 8.1 or better (and built-in WARP using the [`-software3d11` launch arg](./#dedicated-server-caveats), or a physical graphics card
```

- 15 Mbps network upload, but 10 is workable, 25 if you want to avoid players getting disconnected when going back to the lobby after a match

**Note:** It is recommended to surpass the listed requirements. Currently the number of available servers covers the daily playerbase more than enough. If you're planning to host public servers for the community it is therefore recommended to either fill a niche (like a gamemode that is so popular that all existing servers are full) or provide a better service than existing hosts (less lag, more stable, etc.).

## Setup

Dedicated servers allow you to host a Northstar server without having to use a full client, making them more lightweight and easier to host for longer periods of time. Dedicated servers are still in development for Northstar, so while they do work, expect some bugs and general jank.\
To start a dedicated server on Northstar, launch NorthstarLauncher.exe with the argument `-dedicated`, this can be done manually, but releases also provide the batch file `r2ds.bat`, which will also do this.\
When using a dedicated server, arguments are read from `ns_startup_args_dedi.txt`, rather than `ns_startup_args.txt`.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You can also follow a video guide for this process from [this YouTube link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EZ3w2Nl9SZo)

```
if doing this, also delete the entire `guides` folder from `docs/hosting-a-server-with-northstar/`, and remove line 46 from [`SUMMARY.md`](https://github.com/NoCatt/NorthstarWiki/blob/re-serverhosting/docs/SUMMARY.md?plain=1#L46)

  contains [ConVars](../server-settings/convars.md) and [overrides](../server-settings/playlistvars.md)

### Dedicated Server Caveats

At the moment, dedicated servers still require DirectX 11 to work, which typically requires a physical GPU, though they use almost no GPU processing power while in use, this can be an issue especially on GPU-less setups, so the launch argument `-softwared3d11` can be used to force DirectX to run in software mode.\
While this is absolutely not ideal, it's the best solution for truly headless dedicated servers at the moment, and surprisingly hardly uses any CPU time, though it can use roughly up to 1GB of RAM.\
Regarding RAM usage, dedicated servers also use significant amounts of RAM at the moment, often requiring 1.5-2GB, though I expect this to lower as development continues.

### Video guide

{% hint style="info" %}
Note that these guides might not fully reflect best practices and can be outdated. However they should be helpful in setting up a server for the first time.\
If you're planning to get serious about hosting your own server, please check out the ["Hosting a Dedicated Server" section](../dedicated-server/).
{% endhint %}

> {% embed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EZ3w2Nl9SZo" %}

Reviewer 2: Not sure if we should even link to it any more as it's severely outdated. Maybe with a big asterisk that TCP forwarding is no longer a thing?

Author: will do

Author: let me know if you think this is good
